- `date created:` 2024-05-30 12:59
- `date modified:` `=dateformat(this.file.mtime, "yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm")`
- `tags:` #Claim 
- `parents:` [[Claims (to verify)]]

***

Another teleological analysis can be formulated on the basis of Kareev (1995). He suggested that a limited working memory is better than an unlimited one for detecting imperfect correlations between features in the environment. To take a hypothetical example, there could be a population with a 70% correlation between the height of an individual and the pitch of his or her voice. In a statistical procedure, when one uses a limited sample size to estimate the correlation (e.g., an observation of 4–8 individuals), the modal value of the observed correlation is larger than the population value. The smaller the sample size, the higher the modal value. Thus, a smaller sample size would increase the chances that a moderate correlation would be noticed at all. In human information processing, the limit in the sample size could be caused by the capacity limit of the observer’s short-term memory; more samples may have been observed but the observer bases his or her perceived estimate of the correlation on only the number of examples that fit into the focus of attention at one time. Kareev et al. (1997) showed that, in fact, low-working-memory subjects were more likely to notice a population correlation of .2–.6. In this regard, it bears mention that in the statistical sampling procedure, the modal value of the sample correlations for sample sizes of 6 and 8 were shown to be only moderately greater than the true population value (which was set at .6 or .7); but for a sample size of 4, the modal value of the sample correlations was almost 1.0. Here, then, is another reason to believe that a basic capacity limit of four could be advantageous. It could take a moderate correlation in the real world and turn it into a perceived strong correlation. At least, this could be advantageous to the extent that decisiveness in decision-making and definiteness in the perception of stimulus relationships are advantageous. For example, it makes sense to walk away from someone displaying traits that are moderately correlated with injurious behavior, and it makes sense to perceive that people usually say please when they are asking for a favor.